so what was your your reaction to I was
pissed I was really angry I was really
pissed I was like I was already thinking
about leaving and then they told me I
couldn't do it and if you tell me that I
can't do something I'm gonna do it so
you cannot tell me what I can I cannot
do it so it must be a difficult kid yeah
for sure yeah absolutely ask my mother
ask my girlfriend ask my brother ask
everybody
[Music]
thank you
okay GM gmgm welcome back to the PVC
Mastery podcast this is episode number
two three three well basically number
two but yeah
wait small intro exactly so in this
episode we're going to talk about how to
acquire customers or clients as a
freelancer as an agency maybe as well
and I think we want to do that by
explaining what our stories are from
getting clients for ourselves and some
strategies in how you can get clients as
a freelancer but also how to retain them
maybe we'll cut it up in in the next
episode talk about that as well but yeah
I think today we're just going to be
talking about our stories uh we've got
our our clients how we do sales business
types Etc so maybe you can kick it off
with the story of how did you get your
first client my first client and my
first client well that's that's a while
ago yeah I guess my first client came in
seven years ago maybe even eight I think
eight years from from from today and
actually my first client came in from a
freelancing platform called freelancer
doesn't know maybe you maybe you know
the the freelancing platform so when I
first started out freelancing I
basically started out freelancing as a
side hustle so I was working at the ADC
full-time and then in the evening hours
and in my weekends I started out
freelancing I think I explained that in
a previous episode and I got my first
client through a platform called
freelancer.l and that's where a lot of
companies
especially small size companies
basically create an effort where they
are saying hey I'm looking for a online
marketing Specialist or a Google ads
specialist in particular for this case
this is my budget this is what I need
and you were able as a member of the
platform to basically send over a offer
and you had to compete with other
Google Specialists as well so I got my
first client I think my first two
clients from that particular platform
where I basically load both my offers
because I just wanted I wanted to start
off getting some traction I wanted to
get in some clients some names and some
experience already
um so yeah it was it's kind of boring
but this platform really really helped
me to to to kick-start my freelancing
journey
so after I got my first clients that's
when I started experimenting with some
other organic some organic strategies as
well so what I'm really fond of and I'm
I'm still fond of that strategy is using
LinkedIn organic search so a lot of
people are still not using that tactic
properly and I was I guess one of the
first ones that really leveraged the
search function within LinkedIn where
you can actually search on content
instead of people where you can then
sort sort based on the the the the post
date of someone that posted hey I'm
looking for a Google ad Specialist or
I'm looking for a sea Specialist or a
Google ads or AdWords freelancer so I
had this big list of all of the keywords
that people could possibly use inside of
their LinkedIn post yeah and that's
where I got my next three clients from
and from that point I had like five or
six clients already which came in sort
of organic at least I didn't have to pay
a lot of money for them to to to get in
contact with them to acquire them yeah
so yeah those are my first clients
really interested in how you got your
first client yeah it's uh sort of
similar but not exactly the same but I
went on indeed which is indeed.nel yeah
job board in the Netherlands and I
looked I was still working at agency so
I was also trying to get my first
freelance clients on the side and
actually they told me that I was not
allowed to do it so really yeah I asked
them can I yeah I'm thinking about doing
like a little side hustle and kind of do
it and they they went to talk about it
with the board and everything and then
they told me first they thought they
said yeah I think it's going to be fine
and no problem and then once I actually
landed the client I said yeah I I got a
client I didn't mention the name but
they they then told me that I wasn't
allowed to do it yeah so was it because
of a conflict of interest or what was
the reason I think probably something
like that yeah like I'm working at
agency see and they don't want the
people to work with clients because
potentially they could work for them as
well but yeah anyway I don't know
exactly the reason but I did it anyways
yeah I was like [__] this
so what was your your reaction to I was
pissed yeah I was really angry I was
really pissed I was like I was already
thinking about leaving and then they
told me I couldn't do it and if you tell
me that I can't do something I'm gonna
do it so you cannot tell me what I can I
cannot do so so it must be a difficult
kid yeah for sure yeah absolutely ask my
mother ask my girlfriend ask everybody
yeah no but yeah I was I was furious and
I and I thought yeah suck it I'm gonna
do it anyway I'm gonna freelance full
time I'm gonna free less full-time but
first the client that I got was through
indeed which is a job job board in the
Netherlands for those who don't know and
I looked for jobs that were already open
for a few months regular job opening so
not freelance positions but just regular
jobs and then I emailed them asking like
okay I I see you have this job opening I
can maybe help you out on a freelance
basis I had a reduced hourly rate as
well back then and I said maybe I can I
can help you out until you find someone
to come work in your team yeah and as
you know the Google ads Market is still
very very hot yeah and it's hard to find
good Specialists so I ended up working
with that first client which was lead
stores from come out us I ended up
working with him for I think a year year
and a half or so until they finally
until we finally split it up so that was
that was the story of my first client
did you kept working for them when they
even hired a Google specialist when they
found one or did you basically end your
contract when they found a full-timer
yeah exactly I ended the contract before
before that was all the reasons why why
I left there but yeah yeah in the end
they ended up hiring someone so it was
still a one one and a half year period
to do okay and it was really nice
because they allowed me to work with
them on the side when I was working at
agency I got trust and confidence that
this this was actually actually possible
and then after that I started to get
more clients through like you said
LinkedIn as well got a recruiter that
reached out to me with the with the big
job I think I mentioned in the last
podcast that ring and then after that it
was all all inbound so that they did the
recruiter try to hook you in with a job
offer or no freelance freelance yeah
interim okay yeah yeah you just said
yeah I have this interim job 32 hours
per week or 36 which was really big and
he asked if I was available and I
actually quit my job on that day so I
was available yeah I'm available let's
go it was meant to happen yeah exactly
exactly so they should do a lot of
interim work in the past in the
beginning or did you find a lot of
clients like a mixed bag of clients low
value clients high value clients right
from the start how did your client
composition portfolio look like yeah the
first client that I got was that stores
like I said which is pretty big eight
figures company yeah a lot of different
stores in all over Europe that was the
first first one then I got ring ring is
also a really big brand like they were
already bought by Amazon for I think
billion dollars or so like a few years
ago yeah before a few years before that
yeah and they were at shark in shark
tank so I had already a portfolio of big
clients even though it was small
portfolio but then I threw lead stores I
was actually working with a Google team
and this was the best Google team that
I've ever worked with I know everybody's
always hating on the Google reps and
oftentimes Riley so but this team led by
Axel and later on Julia was in that team
as well they they really helped me
because Axel referred me then from that
stores to X there and exter I'm still
working with them now and yeah it's so
so much fun to work with these guys yeah
yeah for my biggest client nice we have
to talk a little bit off off camera
they're great people yeah yeah and he
helped me he referred me to exter and
then my portfolio grew and then you know
everything started to spiral into more
and more clients from there so I think
referral was really important but those
type of clients that I got from that
Google team were all like those big ones
you know so I had a few smaller clients
as well but my portfolio was usually
already filled up because all of the
clients were like really Big Spenders so
you you had to make a lot of hours in on
a weekly basis already right so you
couldn't handle tell my last clients no
exactly I think at the most I had like
you pick one five or six yeah exactly
maybe seven sometimes with a few smaller
ones next to it but that was that for
you then because I know you had at some
point like 20 plus clients or something
no I think close to 20 on my highest
point my close to burnout Point yeah
highest point were like lowest points
yeah so my my path when the yeah went a
little bit differently yeah so I started
out freelancing in the evening hours
that's when I managed to get like up to
six seven clients from all of these
organic inbound like platforms like
LinkedIn freelancer.nl I even started
out a small Google ads campaign for
myself
which also worked great but once I made
the switch from basically quitting my
job full time at the agency and then
starting out freelancing full-time
myself I still had this gap of I guess
two three days a week I had like two or
three three days a week filled with
these clients and that's when I was
offered a interim job at a big agency in
the southern part of the Netherlands and
that's when I moved over there and
actually I first started out on a
two-day week basis then managed to grow
to a three day a week basis because they
really needed the amount of hands that
like the very big Dutch clients that
that well they had to run the ads for
they didn't have the Personnel they
really had problems hiring and had to
basically educate some other Google ads
Specialists on a job as well so that's
when I took the remaining part of the
freelance clients that I started working
for and moved them to my weekends I was
like yeah I can do this extra day a week
no problems so that's when the journey
started yeah but that job basically
ended at one point in time I worked
there for I guess seven eight months so
quite a long period for an interim job
or not depends what you're used to a bit
of for me was a long period and after
that once the interim job ended I was
like oh wait a minute I'm now used to
these sick revenues right from the start
basically working my ass off six days
seven days a week and if one of this
bigger interim jobs just well disappears
then that's a big hole in your in your
revenues on the revenues and not just
looking at the the the
the clients in particular the freelance
clients I had personally that was
already doing great revenues on the
month already but it didn't felt that
way it was like okay if they stop right
now that's a 50 cut in my revenue and I
do not want to to to have this again in
the near future so that's when I said no
to every single interim job available
since I wanted to have this mixed bag of
high value low value clients to
basically spread around the the risks
and really happy with that decision ever
since so yeah how did you do that
because you you you worked for all of
the bigger clients until well last year
recently yeah yeah weren't you afraid of
these these well these risks not really
because I think this is also the
difference between between us and how we
how we look at risks
to speak about this for a whole episode
is it actually quite an interesting
topic I think but no I I always looked
at it from a perspective of if a client
goes away yeah then I always had the
feeling that I can get a new client
within a week yeah to some people that
might sound arrogant but I'm just being
realistic looking at how the Google ads
Market is and if you are a good Google
ad specialist and you already have like
a name if you're new then of course you
need to build up your portfolio but I
had already worked at an agency for two
and a half years with some connections
yeah with 50 plus clients there at
connections then I was freelancing I had
built up built up really nice
connections people were referring me I
was already saying no to a lot of jobs
because I was just full so I was either
saying no or pushing them to other
Google ads Specialists so I never really
had that feeling of oh what if one goes
away because I always felt like I can
just fill it up yeah and also sometimes
it's nice if a client Falls away because
then you have a little bit more time to
think to see clearly where you want to
go do I actually even want to work as
many hours that I'm that I'm working all
these things so sometimes other people
have the have to make these decisions
for you exactly yeah that's how it works
yeah for sure but you you mentioned that
your your focus is a lot on on inbound
would you yeah what would you recommend
to to somebody starting out now maybe
somewhere because we got these messages
a lot from people that are working
agencies with the same background as us
and then they say yeah I'm working here
now two three four five years how can I
start freelancing what would you
recommend to them yeah I I really think
it's a personal thing I absolutely
despise doing sales outbound sales
that's the one thing I hate most so I I
haven't done any outbound sales at all I
haven't done
any outbounds at all to to obtain
clients at least so everything that I
did was basically
folks around inbound so I think that's
the it's the best strategy because
there's already some great intent at
people that are looking to work with you
already so a lot of people contacting me
right now they are already sold on the
idea I want to work with Bob where I
want to work with mouse instead of
instead of when you are the guy reaching
out to them by telephone by mail hey I'm
this Google specialist how are your ads
doing can I perform a free audit I'm not
saying that doesn't work but it's not
just my kind of style yeah so if you
want to be aggressive and if you want to
grow real fast then I think doing
outbound sales is a great tool but you
have to be the kind of person to do it
yeah and I'm really off the camp of
consultative selling so I really like to
be that honest consultant that sells
based on the stuff the client actually
needs and that has worked wonders for me
so I'm not doing I haven't changed
anything at all because that was my
success formula and what does that look
like for you what do you mean with
consultative selling so it's not really
looking at the stuff you you you can
sell or you can do for the account oh
this client isn't doing YouTube or this
client isn't doing upper funnel at all
or they're not doing remarketing or they
should do a BMX when it isn't a logical
thing to do for them that's not how I
look at accounts or proposals I look at
well what are you doing right what's
going what's going wrong where can you
improve and basically that was my plan I
created a game plan on all of the
specific Parts within the accounts and
within the strategy within the tactics
where the account could improve on and I
basically wrote this long strategy game
plan document which basically gave the
information where I gave the information
free yeah free of charge because I
haven't I I didn't sold on that specific
moment but since since I did it this way
it was yeah clients immediately trusted
me like oh this guy is is doing the best
for me and for my account instead of
just running through a list of hey I can
we can do this a profano campaign where
I can buy you a million impressions for
5 000 Euros or if you want to go for 5
million it costs a thousand Euros per
month that's not how I how I like to
approach things so I really I was really
honest with myself and with the clients
and basically then looked at my game
plan okay if I want to roll this out for
this client what is it going to cost in
terms of hours what was what was my
hourly rate back then back then I was
working with early rates and fixed fixed
fees as well yeah and it just yeah it
just worked for me yeah so I haven't
changed it at all and how did you kick
that off with the audit yeah and then
yeah always audits yeah unless of course
an account is new but almost nine of ten
times an account has in history or they
have done some Google ads in the past
yeah yeah that was my target audience as
well people that that had some knowledge
of Google ads where it could easily
spark spar with that was a great yeah
great potential client great clients to
chat with as well instead of well a
client that doesn't know anything about
Google ads but you have to tell them
every single thing yeah so yeah yeah and
I I think the nice thing about inbound
as you also describe it is exactly the
same for me I don't want to do cold
emails or cold calling I really hate it
I don't even want to do regular calls
anytime at all and it's not a great post
by Alex Becker right yeah yeah let's get
on a call nope [__] you
yeah I I tried to limit my calls to as
few as possible in a week but it's
different when you do inbound inbound
because then as you said people are
already sold on you and then the sales
quote-unquote call is not even a sales
call it's just it's consult yeah as a
consultant you have to discover whether
you want to actually work with them and
if you can help them that's also the
thing because I've also had many cases
where I felt honestly like not I'm not
the right guy for you right now maybe
they were starting out I don't work with
starting my brands that are starting out
only what you also said like bands that
are more into the scaling side and then
I said I'll be honest I'm not the the
right guy for you right now I will
forward forward you to someone who might
be able to help you that creates trust
as well that you're not just in it to
grab all the money that you can but
you're also being honest in who you want
to work with and and yeah and I think
that's the best strategy for the long
run because if you just grabbing money
every way you can you end up with a
client portfolio uh that every morning
when you open your empty you're like oh
man I'm I do not want to work for this
account yeah why did I why did I sold
this guy yeah so yeah I I had these
moments in the past but I really learned
from these kinds of choices in the first
couple of I guess three years because I
was so tied to the revenue stream like
oh I this client isn't a great fit and
it's it's costing me a lot of energy to
work on these accounts to chit chat with
these with these owners uh but yeah I
couldn't I couldn't stop because of the
revenue yeah that's that's when I well I
think three years ago I I started to
make a shift because I was working
towards this burnout I was like okay now
I have to make some room I have to
scratch away some some of the clients
yeah what did you fit yeah what did you
do then because you you noticed okay I'm
going in the wrong direction moving
towards potentially a burnout what were
the the steps that you took then to
optimize your client portfolio I'm
really a guy that just grabs a hammer a
sledgehammer
yeah so sometimes I have these these
moments where I just grab like a big
Sledgehammer I'm like okay this is I'm
going the wrong direction I have to I
have to destruct some parts of my
business it's funny because we you well
actually you call yourself Bob the
Builder because you are you are our
product Builder but you're also about
The Destroyer oh yeah I am I am yeah I
am yeah yeah something in my mind just
just breaks I'm like [__] this yeah I'm
just going through something I'm just
going to make the switch right now and
that's when I just yeah ended contracts
with like three or four of my bigger
clients that I didn't have great fit
with that and they were like okay no
problem thanks for referring us to
another specialist we will work it out
yeah and I was I was not like okay I'm
going to stop today because I can't take
it anymore I was like this is my plan I
would like to end the contract with you
here are some options that you can
consider I'm I will give you the a
reasonable time to to find someone else
so the account is basically getting the
attention it deserves and that worked
wonders I think for the client but also
for me so that really gave me
I think I had like two or three of these
moments in the past and they just give
you instant headspace like instant the
next day you're like oh I should have
done this half a year a year earlier
yeah yeah yeah so looking at the the
back to the consultative selling because
you also did this and I'm looking at our
our notes how did you create your your
plans you also started with an audience
yeah same thing how did you salt people
on these plants yeah also same I people
reach out to me because I I'm doing
inbound focusing on inbounds or
providing a lot of value on LinkedIn
showing my my skill sets and my my
expertise and my experience and then
yeah they reach out and I usually start
off with an audit it's not always a
complete audit because audits if you do
a full entire audit it can really take
you like two days yeah of work but I do
like a condensed version where I look at
the most important things and you if you
get some experience in Google ads you'll
quickly see what the status is the way
you can improve where you can improve
like really quickly exactly you look at
the campaign structure conversion
tracking then you usually already find a
few things and then I put that in the in
in the audit in the presentation and
then I get on a call with the client to
do to discuss it to present it to them
and then if they like it then we move on
to how we can work together and then we
decide on okay how many hours do I think
that I need okay then we start to think
about the the fee and I used to always
work with hourly fee but now the last
clients that I've worked with is a
combination of fixed fee plus percentage
of spend so that I can grow with them
and all clients that I would work with
in the future is also that way but I'm
definitely not against hourly rates I
see some people hating on on it but yeah
it's not really scalable but let's be
honest if you can create invoice of 40
hours a week yeah and you can ask 125.
yep
exactly but even if even if it's 60
Euros per hour I started at 50. it's
still four times the money agency
exactly exactly so no I I that's that's
how I how I did it and so so did you
also worked with terms and conditions in
your
not really probably I should have
probably done that more but yeah I just
I just sent them sort of like a
freelance agreement yeah that's the main
the bare minimum legally what you need
to do sometimes I didn't even do it
because I was just like let's just let's
just go let's just work so maybe that
was a little bit too much on built on
trust yeah tell us something about your
risk management yeah that's true that's
true true yeah but no I never really had
contracts in terms of minimum amount of
time or anything like that I was I was
never into that and in the agreement it
was just only like the price and yeah of
course like if if somebody wanted to
stop then we had like a few days of
maybe a week or so of a term that we
needed to to for a Handover or something
but I never really did anything like
that they shouldn't count any any
problems in your freelance periods legal
wise
only one way you thought oh this is this
is basically where I needed my T and TNC
yeah only one time the guy didn't pay me
and then that was that was really
painful in the end
yeah I think it was like total of 7K or
so oh wow yeah yeah it's not like 50
Euros or 500 Euros or something so it
was a lot of money I've just came twice
as well scammed yeah yeah what happened
yeah I was hired by a really really
weird Eco webshop that was
kind of weird they also did some some
hennep hemp yeah they did some some ham
stuff where they sold droplets and some
some food substitution stuff and there
was really a well a vegan based Niche
web shop they were quite early in their
move they started out I guess four years
ago and they came in from my Google ads
campaign that I was running back then
they worked wonders for me in case the
listeners might interest them I paid
like 200 250 euros per lead I had a
close rate of I guess 60 percent so well
a sale cost me like 400 450 euros
completely fine and they also came in
from this Google ads search campaign and
I went to Utrecht where they were based
and well they they seemed okay so they
just needed help on the spot setting up
the campaigns because they had some
problems with their revenues and
basically
I already saw red flags because the CEO
any management also well were involved
in every single meeting and I really
wanted to know every single detail every
single metric and what we could could
improve upon yeah but yeah I was I was
beginning I was still a noob yeah the
freelancing world world so so yeah naive
so I didn't see that happening but I
went there for I think maybe eight times
Well spread over to three months so the
first invoice was
two and a half K somewhat like that and
as I I always send my invoices after
yeah the work has been completed and
then I usually just just use a payment
term of 14 days or 30 days and I guess
this one was on for 14 days so after six
six weeks basically the
the first six weeks are basically risk
because you impose afterwards and then
you have to payment the payment terms
yeah so if a client doesn't pay or
doesn't want to pay the sixth the the
first six weeks are just gone in terms
of investment of your time so after two
months I started to worry hey this
invoice isn't getting paid and I wasn't
able to to contact them by phone by
email they ignored me
um and I went to the the office a few
more times three four more times they
were already acting a little bit well
weird management was already dropping
off sitting in the back I was a little
bit ignored so that's when I felt hey
something is wrong here so yeah these
invoices they eventually they weren't
paid no no they weren't paid even if I
had even when I had great terms and
conditions yeah I also put a lawyer on
it but yeah it also cost me money yeah I
guess yeah it cost me 800 euros yeah
exactly to to to to well to for them to
grab my money but yeah they didn't open
the door they didn't they didn't answer
the phone so basically I lost about four
case 4K money in revenue and then
800 Euros for the for the legal fees so
that was a big big [__] up yeah and also
another client they basically just just
went broke and they were like yeah sorry
but I we we really can't can pay yeah
yeah and it was a really high invoice I
guess it was like eight or nine Kate is
yeah that's when we first bought our
house and I really needed the money
money yeah so that's when I freaked out
a little bit and I told to myself okay
this is the point where I'm going to
transition from a few clients that are
like eighty percent part of my portfolio
to a mixed bag of high value clients and
a few more of the lower value clients so
I told to myself I do not want to risk
my invoice is not getting paid or at
least
half or of it not not getting paid yeah
so if I basically create a big portfolio
of different clients in different niches
verticals it would be okay and it really
really gives me some Financial rest yeah
yeah and speaking of a diversified
portfolio of clients you said different
verticals yeah so you've always worked
with different types of clients Ecom
yeah
bbtc there was also deliberate conscious
decision or yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah
yeah so of course I really like every
Google ad specialist has has has feeling
for e-commerce or Legion or b2c or B2B I
really like a legion especially b2c
Legion so that's where I focused on
mainly but I managed to get clients in
different verticals from gardeners to
driving schools to well every different
different business types essentially but
I also had the B2B SAS and the Ecom
clients just to to hop in some
diversification but also because I found
it nice to see other the other parts of
Google ads instead of just running
bottom of the funnel search campaigns
you know so I really enjoyed running
shopping later smart shopping later BMX
for these types of clients as well and
it's nice because then your skill set
grows as well right yeah so it really
helps when I later transitioned to
part-time coaching but also the
educational products that we make
together nowadays that we have this big
broad knowledge base of every single
vertical and client type yeah yeah
possible nice and yeah I think I think
this was really nice because we
definitely spoke about our stories when
it comes to acquisition and getting
clients yeah but I think we can also
take it one step further and and talk
about how we make sure that the clients
stay on board yeah and they do not run
away and they don't run away exactly
because that's in the end as a
freelancer the the that's why I like
Google ads is because it's always on
it's in theory it's never ending and
therefore if you get a client then
there's a really big chance that they
will stay with you for a long time yeah
unless a couple of years for a couple of
years unless they in-house or or stop or
whatever there are reasons of course why
you would stop working with with the
client but if they are okay with you as
a freelancer then yeah there's no reason
why you cannot work with that for two
three four five years so I think that's
interesting to to Jump On In The Next
Episode yeah so for everybody listening
that was the the end of this episode we
want to ask you to like And subscribe
and leave a review and share it with
with your colleagues and other people in
in the PPC space yeah and that would be
really cool to us and then we'll be back
next week with an episode on
retain clients which is I think gonna be
an interesting one as well and yeah if
you have any feedback for us just send
us the DM we're also setting up a page
where you can find everything about the
podcast and where you can send in
questions but that's going to come we'll
announce that a bit later so for now
thanks for listening and stay tuned for
the next episode next week see you in
the next episode ciao
[Music]